https://github.com/sudo97/Roku-Sample-App
BrightScript

Android 
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.roku.remote&start=10&hl=ja
https://cinemaapk.net/roku/

https://flixed.io/fox-news-live-roku/

Roku开发人员安装指南 - opentogether的博客 - CSDN博客
https://blog.csdn.net/opentogether/article/details/53419288

BrightScript语言参考 - opentogether的博客 - CSDN博客
https://blog.csdn.net/opentogether/article/details/53305849

Choose the best TV and streaming media player for you
Connect and use an Amazon Fire TV, Apple TV, Google Chromecast, or Roku device
Watch Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Netflix, and other streaming video services
Use live streaming services like DirecTV Now, fuboTV, Hulu with Live TV, PlayStation Vue, Sling TV, and YouTube TV

Glossary
1080i A form of high-definition (HD) television with a resolution of 1,080 horizontal lines displayed in an interlaced fashion.

1080p A form of high-definition (HD) television with a resolution of 1,080 horizontal lines displayed progressively. Also known as full HD.

16:9 The widescreen aspect ratio (16 units wide by 9 units high) used in broadcast HD television.

4:3 The squarish aspect ratio (4 units wide by 3 units high) used in standard-definition (SD) television.

4K A form of Ultra HD with a resolution of 3,840 × 2,160 pixels.

720p A form of high-definition (HD) television with a resolution of 720 horizontal lines displayed progressively. Also known as HD ready.

8K A form of Ultra HD with a resolution of 7,680 × 4,320 pixels.

A/V receiver See audio/video receiver

Amazon Fire TV Amazon’s line of streaming media players and Smart TVs.

Amazon Prime Video Amazon’s streaming video service.

analog television Pre-HD television, the original technology used to broadcast television signals over the air.

Android Google’s mobile operating system, used in phones and tablets.

Android TV Google’s operating system for Smart TVs.

Apple TV Apple’s streaming media player.

aspect ratio The ratio of the width to the height of a screen or picture.

audio/video receiver A component in a home theater system that routes, decodes, and amplifies both audio and video signals.

basic cable The selection of channels included in the standard subscription packages offered by cable television providers.

Blu-ray A DVD format designed for high-definition programming.

broadcast television One of the major television networks—ABC, CBS, CW, Fox, and NBC—that broadcast their programming via local television stations.

cable television Television that is transmitted via physical cable, not over the air.

cast See screen casting

closed captions Subtitles for a program, displayed onscreen.

DBS Short for direct broadcast satellite, a technology that enables the transmission of television signals from an orbiting satellite to a small receiving dish.

diginet Short for digital network, a television network broadcast over local digital subchannels.

digital network See diginet

digital television The current form of television transmission, where all signals are digital in nature.

digital video recorder See DVR.

direct broadcast satellite See DBS

DirecTV One of two companies offering satellite television services in the United States.

DISH Network One of two companies offering satellite television services in the United States.

Dolby Atmos A new type of surround sound that adds “height” to the audio experience.

Dolby Digital One of the current standards for surround sound, with 5.1-channel surround.

Dolby Vision Dolby’s proprietary HDR technology.

DTS One of the current standards for surround sound, with 5.1-channel surround.

DTS:X A new type of surround sound that adds “height” to the audio experience.

DVD A digital optical disc typically used to store movies and other video content in standard-definition format.

DVR Short for digital video recorder, a device or service that records OTA, cable, satellite, or streaming television programming.

edge lighting Lighting in an LCD display that uses LEDs along the edge of the display for backlighting.

elevation speaker In a Dolby Atmos or DTS:X audio system, speakers firing upward or downward to provide the illusion of height.

Ethernet The cabling used to physically connect devices in a network.

e-waste Short for electronic waste, old electronics devices that cannot be recycled in a traditional fashion.

FALD Short for full-array local dimming, a display with full-array backlighting and local dimming.

fiber optic service See FIOS

FIOS Short for fiber optic service, a type of cable system where content is transmitted over fiber optic cable instead of traditional copper cable.

full HD Another term for 1080p high-definition television.

full-array backlighting An LCD display that uses LED backlighting with local dimming.

gateway A device, typically provided by an Internet service provider, that functions as both a modem and router.

Google Chromecast Google’s streaming media player.

HD Short for high definition, a video signal or display with significantly higher resolution than standard definition television. HD may be either 720p, 1080i, or 1080p resolution.

HD ready Another term for 720p high definition.

HDMI Short for high-definition multimedia interface, an interface for transmitting digital audio/video content. Most electronics devices today are connected via HDMI cables.

HDMI ARC An HDMI connection that also can function as an audio output for sound bars and audio/video receivers. (ARC stands for audio return channel.)

HDR Short for high dynamic range, a technology that produces a brighter picture with higher contrast levels.

HDR10 A popular HDR technology.

Hulu A popular online streaming video service.

Internet service provider See ISP

iOS Apple’s operating system for mobile devices, used in iPhones and iPads.

ISP Short for Internet service provider, a company that delivers Internet service to homes and businesses.

LCD display A flat-screen television or computer display that uses liquid crystal technology.

LED display A type of LCD display that incorporates LED backlighting.

letterbox A technique for presenting widescreen movies on less-wide displays; the original aspect ratio is preserved by surrounding the picture by black bars at the top and bottom of the screen.

LFE Short for low-frequency effects, an audio channel devoted to deep, low bass sounds, typically played through a separate subwoofer.

live streaming service An online service that streams live programming from broadcast, cable, and satellite networks.

local dimming A type of LCD display that uses LEDs behind the screen for backlighting.

mirror See screen mirroring.

modem A device that translates signals from an Internet service provider for use with a computer or router.

Netflix A popular online streaming video service.

OLED Short for organic light-emitting diode, a type of display in which a film made from an organic compound emits light in response to electric current. OLED displays produce blacker blacks and brighter colors than competing LCD displays.

on-demand A service that offers video programming whenever you choose, not on a predetermined broadcast schedule.

OTA Short for over the air, referring to television signals broadcast from a local station to nearby households.

OTA antenna A passive device used to receive over-the-air television transmissions from local channels.

OTT Short for over the top, a live TV streaming service that broadcasts “over the top” of the Internet, not via airwaves or cable.

pay cable Those individual channels offered by cable television providers that require an additional paid subscription.

pillarbox A technique for presenting standard aspect ratio content on widescreen displays; the original aspect ratio is preserved by sandwiching the picture with black bars on either side.

pixel Short for “picture element,” a single point on a television or computer display.

premium cable The selection of channels included in enhanced subscription packages offered by cable television providers.

QLED Short for quantum dot LED, an LCD display technology that uses small filters (“quantum dots”) to produce deeper black levels and an enhanced color range.

resolution The number of pixels that compose the picture on a television or computer display. The higher the resolution, the sharper the picture.

Roku A popular streaming media player.

router A device that distributes a network signal to multiple devices.

satellite television Television that is transmitted via orbiting satellites to ground-based receiving dishes.

screen casting Playing the content from a mobile device on a television.

screen mirroring Replicating the entire content of a mobile device’s screen on a television display.

SD Short for standard definition, the older television standard with 640 × 480 pixel resolution.

Smart TV A television set that can receive and play streaming video from the Internet.

sound bar An array of two or more speakers in a single enclosure, typically positioned underneath a television screen.

streaming media player A device that connects to a television set to receive and play streaming video over the Internet.

streaming video Video content that is transmitted over the Internet for playback in real time.

subchannel A separate digital channel transmitted from a local broadcaster on the same radio frequency as its main channel.

subwoofer A powered speaker that reproduces low-frequency signals.

surround sound A method of surrounding the listener with audio from multiple sides, using multiple speakers.

tvOS The operating system used in Apple TV devices.

Ultra HD (UHD) Short for Ultra High Definition, a video signal or display with a minimum resolution of 3,840 × 2,160 pixels. Ultra HD is currently available in both 4K and 8K resolution.

upscaling The technique of converting a lower-resolution video signal into a higher-resolution version.

VOD Short for Video on Demand, any existing (non-live) programming available for streaming at the viewer’s request.

widescreen A display in which the width is significantly larger than its height.

Wi-Fi A networking technology for transmitting data wirelessly.
